.TH BOOKRAG 1 "April 2026" "ChapterKey" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
bookrag \- CLI-first book retrieval toolkit for EPUB and PDF indexing
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B bookrag
[\fB\-\-base-url\fR \fIURL\fR] \fICOMMAND\fR [\fIARGS\fR]...
.br
.B bookrag
\fBinit\fR
.br
.B bookrag
\fBsetup\fR
.br
.B bookrag
\fBlist\fR
.br
.B bookrag
\fBconvert\fR [\fIINDEX\fR] [\fB\-\-all\fR] [\fB\-\-output\fR \fIDIR\fR]
.br
.B bookrag
\fBstatus\fR
.br
.B bookrag
\fBseries\fR {\fBcreate\fR,\fBreorder\fR} ...
.br
.B bookrag
\fBlocal\fR {\fBscan\fR,\fBwatch\fR,\fBquery\fR,\fBanswer\fR,...} [\fIOPTIONS\fR]
.br
.B bookrag
\fBupdate\fR [\fB\-\-check\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
ChapterKey (command name \fBbookrag\fR) is a self-hosted book indexing and
retrieval tool for EPUB and PDF files.  It converts books into a local
ChromaDB vector database with spoiler-aware retrieval and optional series
management.

The product name is ChapterKey.  The command, Python package, and
compatibility surface remain \fBbookrag\fR.
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.B init
Interactive first-run wizard.  Prompts for an LLM provider and embedding
model, creates a default library, and prints next steps.  Choices:

.RS
.IP 1. 4
Ollama (local, free, private)
.IP 2. 4
OpenRouter (cloud, 200+ models, pay-per-use)
.IP 3. 4
Custom (NVIDIA NIM, Mistral, or any OpenAI-compatible endpoint)
.RE

The Custom option offers sub-menu presets for NVIDIA NIM and Mistral with
pre-filled defaults, plus a manual entry mode for other endpoints.
.TP
.B setup
Initialize a ChapterKey workspace.  Creates input/output directories,
a workspace config, and integration files for external agents.
.TP
.B list
List pending input books in the current workspace.
.TP
.B status
Show workspace status including conversion state of each file.
.TP
.B convert [\fIINDEX\fR] [\fB\-\-all\fR] [\fB\-\-output\fR \fIDIR\fR]
Convert workspace input books into the vector database.
\fIINDEX\fR is the numeric position from \fBbookrag list\fR.
Use \fB\-\-all\fR to convert every pending file.
.TP
.B series {\fBcreate\fR,\fBreorder\fR}
Create named series or reorder books within a series.
.TP
.B local scan [\fIOPTIONS\fR]
Scan the input directory, extract text from EPUB/PDF files, generate
embeddings, and store them in ChromaDB.
.RS
.PP
Key options:
.IP "\fB\-\-library-id\fR \fIID\fR" 4
Target library (default: 1).
.IP "\fB\-\-embedding-provider-id\fR \fIID\fR" 4
Override the embedding provider.
.IP "\fB\-\-embedding-model\fR \fIMODEL\fR" 4
Override the embedding model.
.IP "\fB\-\-chunk-size\fR \fIN\fR" 4
Text chunk size in tokens (default: 750).
.IP "\fB\-\-chunk-overlap\fR \fIN\fR" 4
Chunk overlap in tokens (default: 100).
.IP "\fB\-\-delete-source\fR / \fB\-\-no-delete-source\fR" 4
Delete original files after successful indexing.
.IP "\fB\-\-limit\fR \fIN\fR" 4
Only process the first N files.
.RE
.TP
.B local watch [\fIOPTIONS\fR]
Like \fBlocal scan\fR, but runs continuously at a configurable interval.
.RS
.PP
Additional options:
.IP "\fB\-\-interval-sec\fR \fIN\fR" 4
Seconds between scans (default: 60).
.IP "\fB\-\-limit-per-scan\fR \fIN\fR" 4
Max files to process per scan cycle.
.RE
.TP
.B local query \fB\-\-question\fR \fIQ\fR [\fIOPTIONS\fR]
Retrieve relevant context passages from the vector database.
.RS
.PP
Key options:
.IP "\fB\-\-question\fR \fIQ\fR (required)" 4
The question or search query.
.IP "\fB\-\-context-mode\fR \fIMODE\fR" 4
One of: full_context, no_spoiler (default: full_context).
.IP "\fB\-\-spoiler-mode\fR \fIMODE\fR" 4
One of: full_context, book_only, through_chapter,
through_series_boundary (default: full_context).
.IP "\fB\-\-active-book-id\fR \fIID\fR" 4
Restrict retrieval to this book.
.IP "\fB\-\-active-chapter-index\fR \fIN\fR" 4
Restrict retrieval up to this chapter.
.IP "\fB\-\-top-k\fR \fIN\fR" 4
Number of passages to return (default: 5).
.RE
.TP
.B local answer \fB\-\-question\fR \fIQ\fR [\fIOPTIONS\fR]
Like \fBlocal query\fR, but also generates an LLM answer with citations.
.TP
.B local books list [\fB\-\-library-id\fR \fIID\fR]
List indexed books in a library.
.TP
.B local providers {\fBlist\fR,\fBsync\fR}
List configured providers or sync from environment variables.
.TP
.B update [\fB\-\-check\fR]
Update ChapterKey.  Uses git pull, pip, or dpkg depending on install mode.
Use \fB\-\-check\fR to see what would happen without changing anything.
.SH PROVIDERS
ChapterKey supports multiple embedding providers:
.TP
.B Ollama
Local, free, private.  Requires Ollama running locally with an embedding
model pulled (e.g. \fInomic-embed-text\fR).
.TP
.B OpenRouter
Cloud, 200+ models, pay-per-use.  Requires an API key from
https://openrouter.ai/keys.  Default embedding model:
\fIopenai/text-embedding-3-small\fR.
.TP
.B Custom / NVIDIA NIM
Any OpenAI-compatible API endpoint.  The NVIDIA NIM preset uses
https://build.nvidia.com free tier with model
\fInvidia/nv-embedqa-e5-v5\fR.  Other presets include Mistral.
Custom endpoints can also be configured manually.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /etc/bookrag/bookrag.env
Default environment file for deb installs.
.TP
.I ~/Documents/BookRAG/
Default workspace root.
.TP
.I ~/.local/share/bookrag/
Default data directory (SQLite + ChromaDB).
.TP
.I /opt/bookrag/
Installed source and venv (deb installs).
.TP
.I /var/log/bookrag-bootstrap.log
Bootstrap log for deb installs.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B BOOKRAG_APP_SECRET
Secret key for session encryption.
.TP
.B BOOKRAG_API_HOST\fR, \fBBOOKRAG_API_PORT
API bind host and port.
.TP
.B BOOKRAG_DATA_DIR
Base data directory.
.TP
.B BOOKRAG_INPUT_DIR\fR, \fBBOOKRAG_OUTPUT_DIR
Input and output directories.
.TP
.B BOOKRAG_TOP_K
Number of context passages (default: 5).
.TP
.B BOOKRAG_CHUNK_SIZE\fR, \fBBOOKRAG_CHUNK_OVERLAP
Text chunking parameters.
.SH EXAMPLES
Initialize with interactive wizard:
.RS
.EX
bookrag init
.EE
.RE

Convert all books in workspace:
.RS
.EX
bookrag convert --all
.EE
.RE

Index books from input folder:
.RS
.EX
bookrag local scan --library-id 1
.EE
.RE

Query with spoiler-safe retrieval:
.RS
.EX
bookrag local query --library-id 1 --question "Who is the traveler?" \
  --context-mode no_spoiler --active-book-id 3 --active-chapter-index 15
.EE
.RE

Get an LLM answer with citations:
.RS
.EX
bookrag local answer --library-id 1 --question "What happens in chapter 5?"
.EE
.RE

Update ChapterKey:
.RS
.EX
bookrag update --check
bookrag update
.EE
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.IR ollama (1),
.IR chroma (1)
.SH BUGS
Report issues at https://github.com/filius-fall/chapterkey/issues
